To begin our discussion of the text, we invite you to go back to Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 10.
And let's look at the early part of that verse.
Hebrews 6 10 says,
For God is not unrighteous so as to forget your work and the love you showed for His name.
For a few moments we'd like to talk about Jehovah not being unrighteous.
The opposite of unrighteous would be righteous.
Well, what does righteous mean?
It's a person who, in the case of Jehovah, always does the right thing.
He's never acting in an unjust manner.
He's always fair. He's always going to do the right thing.
And that's the point that Deuteronomy chapter 32 and verse 4 shares with us.
The rock perfect is His activity.
For all His ways are justice.
A God of faithfulness who is never unjust righteous and upright is He.
So we concur with the feelings of Abraham.
Remember his conversation with Jehovah about Simon Gomorrah?
What did Abraham say about Jehovah doing the right thing?
He said it, Genesis chapter 18,
It is unthinkable that you would act in this way by putting the righteous man to death with the wicked.
And he said it again.
It is unthinkable of you.
And then he says,
Will not the judge of all the earth do what is right?
So one of the most encouraging aspects of this text is,
Jehovah can be relied on.
He doesn't change.
He is not going to forget and act in a way other than what is the right and the fair thing to do.
And that reassures us greatly, doesn't it?
And we do our very best to imitate Jehovah in this matter of recognizing to the proper degree and commending to the proper degree our fellow workers and showing appreciation.
What can help us do this?
We invite you to open your Bibles to the book of 1 Peter chapter 3.
And let's look at verse 8.
That's 1 Peter chapter 3 and verse 8.
Notice some qualities that are essential to our being able to imitate Jehovah in showing respect and appreciation.
It says,
Finally, all of you have unity of mine,
fellow feeling,
brotherly affection,
tender compassion,
and humility.
Now, how will these qualities help us to imitate Jehovah?
Well, let's talk just for a moment about fellow feeling.
How could that help us not take for granted what our brothers and sisters do as our fellow workers?
Well, we might begin to ask ourselves some questions as we observe our hardworking fellow workers.
We could pick out someone and say,
How would I feel if I had that assignment?
How hard that must be?
Look at their unselfishness that they show.
How tired they must be at times.
And look at how long they've been hailing the same assignment for so long.
And then we could ask ourselves,
If I had that assignment to perform,
How would I feel if someone recognized me with proper commendation?
And then we could ask ourselves,
How would I feel if no one never said anything?
That fellow feeling helps us to understand what we would need
and how our brothers would need the same.
It reminds us of Matthew chapter 7 and verse 12, doesn't it?
All things, therefore, that you want men to do to you,
you must also do to them.
Now, in this connection,
there was a motivational trainer who worked in the secular field,
and he talked about the relationship between employers and employees.
Well, we're not employers and employees, we're fellow workers.
But there's a principle here.
He said often when dealing with companies,
he would often hear the complaint from the employees
that their employer rarely, if ever, committed them.
And he said in his studies,
that is sometimes legitimate.
But he said, what bothered the employees the most was,
they felt there was a lack of personal interest.
Well, how does that relate?
Well, when we have fellow feeling,
brotherly affection,
we're going to take a personal interest in our brothers.
And we're going to view them as having value and worth.
It will affect how we talk to them, how we treat them,
how we show them that we honor them and respect them,
and we value them.
When we do that,
we don't always have to say, thank you,
they know that we love them and appreciate them,
by the way we deal with them.
However, the fact is,
if we have brotherly affection and fellow feeling
and tender compassion in our heart for our fellow workers,
what's going to happen?
What does Luke 645 say?
A good man brings good out of the good treasure of his heart,
and out of the heart's abundance is mouth speeds.
So we can't help,
but just express how we feel about each other
when those qualities are in our heart.
And in this way,
we're imitating Jehovah,
who always does the right thing in dealing with us.
But now let's take a few moments to talk about a situation
where we may not always think that recognition or commendation
would be appropriate.
Let's take, for example,
one of our fellow workers
could be a brother or a sister,
but in this case, we're going to use a brother,
and this brother has served faithfully for many years.
Conscientious, trustworthy, spiritual,
he's poured his heart into his assignment,
and then due to negligence,
a lapse in good judgment,
or caving into a fleshly weakness,
he is counseled, perhaps even disciplined,
and even loses a privilege of service.
Now, what might that person be going through?
Well, in this case, let's say that this person,
our fellow worker,
is humble, he was honest,
he admitted his mistake, he sought help,
he accepted the counsel,
but now he's having to deal with putting his hand
to the plow and move ahead, he doesn't want to stop.
He has a great attitude.
Well now, what could be commended in this situation?
Well, he certainly would want to commend for negligence,
or lack of good judgment,
or failing to exercise self-control.
But what does Jehovah see in this person now,
with the good attitude that we describe?
The honesty, the humility, the endurance,
the determination to move forward?
Well, Jehovah loves that person.
Jehovah loves that person when he discipline them.
And then in Hebrews chapter 12, verses 12 and 13,
Jehovah says to those who have gone through a difficult time like that,
strengthen the hands that hang down in the feeble knees,
and keep making straight paths for your feet
so that you make it healed.
So Jehovah still loves that person.
And now this reminds us too of King David
after his sins in Psalm 40, verse 12,
and notice the feeling that he had.
He said, so many of my errors overwhelm me that I cannot see my way.
They are more numerous than the hairs of my head,
and I have lost heart.
But then in the next Psalm, Psalm 41,
he says, as for me,
you Jehovah uphold me because of my integrity.
You will keep me in your presence forever.
So what do our brothers need at a time like that?
When their attitude is good,
they need to be reminded that we love them
just as Jehovah loves them.
And we commend them for their honesty and their humility
and their stick-tuitiveness and not quitting.
And we know that Jehovah views them as precious,
especially with their good attitude.
And all those treasures that they had stored up in heaven
prior to their difficulty,
has Jehovah thrown those treasures out?
No, he still retains them,
and he's more than happy for them to start putting more treasures
up in heaven because he appreciates it very much.
So like Paul said to the congregation in Corinth
at 2 Corinthians 2 6 through 8,
after the man who sinned seriously was repentant,
what did Paul say?
This rebuke given by the majority
is sufficient for such a man.
And then he goes on to say,
I therefore exhort you to confirm your love for him.
And one way we can do that is by appropriately
and to the proper degree at the right time,
commending him for his excellent attitude
and his willingness not to stop.
Well, that's just another example of how
Jehovah doesn't forget works of his servants
and neither should we.
So in imitation of Jehovah,
let's always strive to do the right thing, the fair thing.
Let's have the fellow feeling as we do,
let's continue with it, the compassion
and the love for each other.
And then that would automatically make others feel
needed, wanted and appreciated,
and we can add to that by expressions from our heart,
telling them directly how much we value them.
By doing this, we will be imitating our appreciative God
who always does the right thing to those who serve Him.